{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15520\viewh13080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Running a loop model\
\
\
There are three main steps:\
\
1. Group species in the network\
2. Select which model performs best\
3. Run the loop analysis on the best model\
\
\
\
Step 1: Group species in the network\
\
If you have more than 30-40 species in the network, they should be lumped into a smaller number of groups. This can be done by hand (\'93expertise\'94/\'93natural history knowledge\'94) or using an algorithm such as those in the program n_w. Once you have the species grouped (if needed), format the network as described below.\
\
Output from step 1: \
\
	a) csv table of the grouped network. This should have three columns: \
		1. from: This is the species (or group) that the interaction is coming from. In the case of a trophic interaction, this is the predator.  \
		2. to: This is the species (or group) that the interaction is affecting. In the case of a trophic interaction, this is the prey.\
		3. type: This is the type of interaction. Current valid types are: predatorprey, habitat, positive, competition.\
\
		Example:\
\
		from,to,type\
		bear,rabbit,predatorprey\
		rabbit,grass,predatorprey\
		rabbit,mouse,competition\
		grass,mouse,habitat\
\
\
\
Step 2: Select which model performs best\
\
This step uses the \'93model_select.R\'94 script to select which model most often gives outcomes of the monitored species (or groups) that match your known outcomes. \
\
Input:\
\
	a) Network csv table from step 1\
	b) csv table describing the different models you want to test. This should have one row for each model and one column for each possible interaction type you want to include. Inclusion of a interaction type in a model is coded with a \'931\'94 and exclusion is coded with a \'930\'94. The interaction types in this table must match the interaction types in the network table.\
\
	Example:\
\
	predatorprey, competition, habitat\
	1,0,0\
	1,0,1\
	1,1,1\
\
	c) csv table of the known outcomes which will be used to validate the models. No column headers are needed. The first column should contain the species (or groups) for which you have known outcomes, and the second column should contain 1 or -1 to specify the direction of the known outcome.\
\
	Example:\
\
	mouse, -1\
	bear, 1\
\
 \
 \
\
}